Hello and welcome back.
And today's lecture is all about inserting data into your already existing tables.
So go ahead.
Open up my database.
The one we just graded open up our new table my says movies you can say whatever it wants and just make
sure we check and we have four columns defined here or any number of columns.
I'll always go ahead and like e-toll and this will open up a new window.
And here let's go ahead and just select all from our data from our table.
So from movies now if you run this Eiffel's this play TAWS that we have four columns.
It will display that all of their data types.
So Country movie year in movie name and it will display all of their data types.
Well now that will show us that we have absolutely no data not even one single row and that is absolutely
fine.
Absolutely correct.
Because we haven't filled the data and today's like is going to be all about feeling that they need.
Generally speaking there are two ways of filling data.
One is manually by inserting values into the table yourself through as well.
And the second one is copying data from an excel file or perhaps from another relation.
Today we're going to be taking a closer look at inserting data ourselves.
But before that let's quickly go ahead and refresh our memory how to copy data.
I should remember this because we have done that for every challenge so far.
And the theory behind it is all we do is use a copy then we say the table name that we want to copy
into then we specify from where we want to copy it.
In our case it's going to be again from desktop.
And because I'm working on a Mac I put forward slash in and then it put in users deliverymen CO and
it put in desktop and then they put my file name.
So because we don't have any file to work with I'm just going to put the file name then and put a and
extension of this file.
Then they put in delimiter.
I put in the delimiter will be.
And what this does already it says that the values are separated by a comma and dodgier that basically
tells our rescue all how to fill in columns that every column is separated by a comma in this file.
If we don't put this in a skill might just put all of the data inside that table all 5000 rows or whatever
it is into one cell because it just doesn't then want to stop and move on.
And then we also have to put in as we had or we only put this in to make sure that as well doesn't copy
the first row our header were in the table we have all the column names.
Otherwise if we don't put this in we'll have to go to the Excel file and delete the first row manually.
And it just can be a bit frustrating.
So now that we remembered the copy statement let's go ahead and look into insert into this function
insert into something X is very simple.
Again you write insert into.
Then you want to write the name of the table you want to insert into.
In my case it's movies and then you want to say values.
So this is it.
After that you open up your brackets and from here on you can just go ahead and insert data you want.
The important part about inserting into is maintaining the correct syntax.
So if we have four column names for columns in our table we have to input four different datapoints
into this column separated by a comma.
So for example if I want to put movie name I'll go ahead and put 7 because it's where I have to specify
that it's text.
If I don't put these it will just not recognize that it's text inside.
It will just say it's a column name or something.
So I just make sure you put these both up.
Now after we put that in we need to say the year the movie came up 7 came in in 1995.
The country of its origin which is USA.
And then we also can put Jenner and genere for seven isn't going to be mystic and crime.
So let's go ahead and just as is with Kappes letter and maybe that crime of cap letter it's important
to find your date in the station's early on because if we're going to be inserting let's say a hundred
tons of data and you have to say that every gender will be written with uppercase letter and that way
if you do it when you have to be searching that data or working with it you you will remember that if
you want to find old movies that have Mr. JENNER.
You have to write mystic from uppercase.
Of course you can always use the lower or upper functions to avoid that but it just good to have the
language stations or date annotations defined and early on.
So now if we go had run this if we'll actually do it straight away.
Very simple.
Before we go any further let's just check with it that refeeding wanted.
So was golf select all for movies and as you can see there it is movie name seven movie year 1995 country
USA and Jenner Misty.
So let's go ahead and put some more data.
We have insert into movies values and then we opened our brackets and put in something else.
My second favorite film that comes to mind is interstellar.
So let's put that in again.
Don't forget that it's next.
And just for that.
Now put comma to separate that this column has ended the new one begins the year of interstellar 2014.
Country was USA again.
And finally genere was science fiction.
So again we're putting we're defining that that's text.
And now if you run this it will run perfectly and smoothly and nothing bad will happen.
But let's go ahead and try running several rows of data at the same time try to insert several rows
of data at the same time.
So all we need to do is put a comma here and open up a new bracket.
And here we're going to put in the new film.
In my case it's going to be the Green Mile.
The year that movie came out is 1999 the country of its origin is USA and the genre for it is mystic
and drummer so now let's go ahead and try this out so it looks all nice and pretty and if we run this
it will run too.
It will insert two values at the same time.
So now we go ahead and say select all from movies.
We will be able to see rerolls of data and that is exactly correct.
So if you need to input a lot of data at the same time just make sure you separate them by a comma.
So every data goes in this format.
Insert into table name then you say and values
and then you put in brackets commerce commerce commerce comma new brackets inside of it you specify
different columns by putting these commas in.
Now another thing that we can do lessons or just one more line of data.
And so again when turning into movies values and what will happen if we forget to put something in brackets
or we just forget about inputting one column.
So let's say we're put in movie name which will be the godfather.
And then we're going to put in the year it came out in 1972 and say they want to put in the country
of origin.
Or rather let's say we're going to forget that third column and we're going to put it straight into
Junger.
So the genre of this movie will be crime again with big letter C.
And now if we run it here what will happen is luckily for us we did find that Jenner has to be not now.
And there it goes.
As you can see is Violet's not null constraint.
But basically you can see the logic behind it.
What it does it says that the Godfather goes in column one which is movie name 1972 because there was
one comma goes into movie year.
Crime goes into country and genre has to be not because we haven't put anything in genre will be defined
as not.
So let's go ahead and say that we've put we've defined that there is one more column but we didn't put
anything just like absolutely nothing.
We didn't even define it it's going to be later.
And now if we run this like this it will give us a mistake because a country has to be text has to be.
So now if we run it like this it will create it.
But again if we go ahead and select all from movies what it does now you see we have no country.
So because this country has not been defined there will be nothing written in it.
Basically this is a null value and because we didn't specify that country cannot be.
Now we are saying that countries OK being no database has no problems as Google has no problems running
it for other.
Wasn't that hard was it.
We've created four rows of data already and that only took us about five minutes actually about a minute
what the explanation.
And now let's say we want to delete something we want to update something for example we want to input
that country here has to be your site.
How do we do this.
Well we ask you all in asking in general.
This is done for doing update statement.
So you say update then you write the column name that you and an or that they will name you on update
in our its movies and then you want to say that set country to be equal.
USA where and here we can say movie name
equals Godfather D.
And what it does is the cynics behind us is very logical.
I think Mahler doesn't says that we're going to update this type of movies after that we say which column
or columns we're going to be updating.
So we saying we're going to be working with column country.
Now I would say that the country has to be USA if we leave this out.
It will update all of the country names to your site regardless of movie name movie or younger.
And right now in this table it's all right.
But imagine you have hundred more movies and some of them came from Europe some of them came from Asia
that will mess up our whole data.
So we want to specify which exact movie has to be updated.
So this is one where statement comes to play.
Basically we specify that where movie name has to be godfather.
Now let's say that there will be several godfathers maybe a comedy or a rip off or something like that
because as you remember our primary key is movie name and movie year so we used movie name and movie
year to identify a unique row.
We can specify here that movie name has to be godfather and movie has to be 1972.
This will guarantee that we update only this and this line only so only the Godfather did came out in
1972.
Let's go ahead quickly run it as you can see and return to us that it's ablated and go select all from
movies.
Now for more on this we should see that the country was indeed changed to USA.
So again you can see that it was a bit hectic and you can imagine how much problems it is to update
several cells so let's say you forgot to put movie year for seven movies and genre for another 11 movies.
You will have to manually update 18 cells and that will take a lot of time because every single time
we have to write an update query where you say that we update data in this column and this data has
to specify this condition in order to find that particular cell it's very important as well to work
with correct data and it's very important to input correct data from the very beginning.
Otherwise you will have a very hard time fixing it on later.
That's why manually inputting data in is not done as much as importing it from another relation from
another table or from a CV file because there if you made any mistake or you just forgot to import a
lot of data you just drop this table.
You right click your press drop it and then you just create a new table with all the correct data already
inside.
So there's really nothing more to be told about.
Insert into statement.
Just remember disinfects again as we create table you specify that we want to insert into.
Then you say where we want to insert it into and then we say Malleus.
So basically making sure that after values were put in brackets and the valleys willfully separated
by a comma.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.